# Installing `platys`

You can now install `platys` on Windows, Mac OS-X and 64-bit Linux.

## Prerequisites

`platys` relies on the Docker Engine for most of its work, so make sure you have Docker Engine installed either locally or remote, depending on your setup.

  * On desktop systems install Docker Desktop for Mac or Windows
  * On Linux systems, install the Docker for your OS as described on the Get Docker page

For running the Platform generated by `platys`, you also have to install Docker-Compose. 

You also need an internet connection in order to download the necessary images. 

## Installation

### Mac OS-X 

Follow the instructions below for installing `platys` on a Mac systems.  

1. Run this command to download the current stable release of the platys Stack Generator:

  ```
sudo curl -L "https://github.com/TrivadisPF/platys/releases/download/2.1.0/platys.bin" -o /usr/local/bin/platys
```

2. Apply executable permissions to the binary:

  ```
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/platys 
```

3. Use the `--version` option to check that the generator has been installed successfully.

  ```
$ platys --version
Platys - Trivadis Platform in a Box - v2.0.0
```

### Linux

Follow the instructions below for installing `platys` on a Linux systems.  

1. Run this command to download the current stable release of the platys Stack Generator:

  ```
sudo curl -L "https://github.com/TrivadisPF/platys/releases/download/2.1.0/platys.tar.gz" -o /tmp/platys.tar.gz
```

2. Untar and move it to `/usr/local/bin`

  ```
tar zvxf /tmp/platys.tar.gz 
sudo mv platys.dist/ /usr/local/lib/
sudo chown -R root:root /usr/local/lib/platys.dist/
sudo rm /tmp/platys.tar.gz 
```

3. Create a symbolic link to the platys executable

  ```
sudo ln -s /usr/local/lib/platys.dist/platys /usr/local/bin/platys
```

4. Use the `--version` option to check that the generator has been installed successfully.

  ```
$ platys --version
Platys - Trivadis Platform in a Box - v2.1.0
```

### Windows 

Follow the instructions below for installing `platys` on a Windows system. 

1. Run this command to download the current stable release of the platys Stack Generator from Windows Powershell:

  ```
curl "https://github.com/TrivadisPF/platys/releases/download/2.1.0/platys.exe" -o c:/Windows/platys.exe
```

2. Use the `--version` option to check that the generator has been installed successfully.

  ```
$ platys --version
Platys - Trivadis Platform in a Box - v2.1.0
```

   
## Uninstallation

To uninstall `platys` perform

```
sudo rm /usr/local/bin/platys
```
   
## Where to go next

* [Getting Started with `platys` and the `modern-data-platform` platform stack](../platform-stacks/modern-data-platform/documentation/getting-started.md)
* [Explore the full list of platys commands](command-line-ref.md)
* [Configuration file reference](../platform-stacks/modern-data-platform/documentation/configuration.md)
